tensorflow/tensorboard/http_api.md, before:

# Tensorboard client-server HTTP API

## Runs, Tags, and Tag Types

TensorBoard data is organized around the concept of a `run`, which represents
all the related data thrown off by a single execution of TensorFlow, a `tag`,
which groups values of data that come from the same source within a TensorFlow
run, and `tag types`, which are our way of distinguishing different types of
data that have fundamentally different representations and should be processed
on different code paths. For example, a "train" run may have a `scalars`
tag that represents the learning rate, another `scalars` tag that
represents the value of the objective function, a `histograms` tag that reveals
information on weights in a particular layer over time, and an `images` tag that
shows input images flowing into the system. The "eval" run might have an
entirely different set of tag names, or some duplicated tag names.

The currently supported tag types are `scalars`, `images`, `audio`,
`histograms`, `graph` and `run_metadata`. Each tag type corresponds to a route
(documented below) for retrieving tag data of that type.

All of the data provided comes from TensorFlow events files ('\*.tfevents\*'),
which are written using the SummaryWriter class
(tensorflow/python/training/summary_writer.py), and the data is generated by
summary ops (tensorflow/python/ops/summary_ops.py). The `scalars` come from the
`ScalarSummary` op, the `histograms` from the `HistogramSummary`, the `audio`
from the `AudioSummary`, and the `images` from `ImageSummary`. The tag type
`graph` is special in that it is not a collection of tags of that type, but a
boolean denoting if there is a graph definition associated with the run. The tag
is provided to the summary op (usually as a constant).

## `data/logdir`

Returns a JSON object with a key "logdir" that maps to the `logdir` argument
(string) with which Tensorboard started up. Example:
`{logdir: '/foo/logdir/argument'}`

The `logdir` argument is the path of the directory that contains events files.

## `data/plugins_listing`

Returns a dict mapping from plugin name to a boolean indicating whether the
plugin is active. A plugin might be inactive, for instance, if it lacks relevant
data. Every plugin has a key. This route helps the frontend avoid issuing
requests to an inactive plugin - the routes of an inactive plugin do not work.

## `data/runs`

> **NOTE:** TensorBoard is migrating away from this API. Over time, each tag
> type will own a dedicated route, such as `data/plugin/scalars/tags`.

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run name` (quoted string) to dictionaries
mapping from most available tagTypes (see "Migrations" below) to a list of tags
of that type available for the run. Think of this as a comprehensive index of
all of the data available from the TensorBoard server. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": {
        "graph": true,
        "firstEventTimestamp": 123456.789
        "run_metadata": ["forward prop", "inference"]
      },
      "eval": {
        "graph": false,
        "run_metadata": []
      }
    }

The `firstEventTimestamp` value is in seconds since the epoch.

Note that the same tag may be present for many runs. It is not guaranteed that
they will have the same meaning across runs. It is also not guaranteed that they
will have the same tag type across different runs.

### Migrations

Each of the following tag types `<t>` has been migrated to `/data/plugin/<t>/tags`,
and will not appear in the output from this route:

  - `audio`
  - `images`
  - `scalars`
  - `compressedHistograms`, moved to `distributions`
  - `histograms`

## `/data/plugin/scalars/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all
scalar tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": ["xent", "loss", "learning_rate"],
      "eval": ["precision", "recall"]
    }

Note that runs without any scalar tags are included as keys with value the
empty array.

## `/data/plugin/scalars/scalars?run=foo&tag=bar`

Returns an array of event_accumulator.SimpleValueEvents ([wall_time, step,
value]) for the given run and tag. wall_time is seconds since epoch.

Example:

    [
      [1443856985.705543, 1448, 0.7461960315704346],  # wall_time, step, value
      [1443857105.704628, 3438, 0.5427092909812927],
      [1443857225.705133, 5417, 0.5457325577735901],
      ...
    ]

If the format parameter is set to 'csv', the response will instead be in CSV
format:

    Wall time,step,value
    1443856985.705543,1448,0.7461960315704346
    1443857105.704628,3438,0.5427092909812927
    1443857225.705133,5417,0.5457325577735901

## `/data/plugin/histograms/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all
histogram tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"],
      "eval": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"]
    }

Note that runs without any histogram tags are included as keys with
value the empty array.

## `/data/plugin/histograms/histograms?run=foo&tag=bar`

Returns an array of event_accumulator.HistogramEvents ([wall_time, step,
HistogramValue]) for the given run and tag. A HistogramValue is [min, max, num,
sum, sum_squares, bucket_limit, bucket]. wall_time is seconds since epoch.

Annotated Example: (note - real data is higher precision)

    [
      [
        1443871386.185149, # wall_time
        235166,            # step
        [
          -0.66,           # minimum value
          0.44,            # maximum value
          8.0,             # number of items in the histogram
          -0.80,           # sum of items in the histogram
          0.73,            # sum of squares of items in the histogram
          [-0.68, -0.62, -0.292, -0.26, -0.11, -0.10, -0.08, -0.07, -0.05,
          -0.0525, -0.0434, -0.039, -0.029, -0.026, 0.42, 0.47, 1.8e+308],
                          # the right edge of each bucket
        [0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0,
          1.0, 0.0]        # the number of elements within each bucket
        ]
      ]
    ]

## `/data/plugin/distributions/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all
distribution tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"],
      "eval": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"]
    }

Note that runs without any distribution tags are included as keys with
value the empty array.

## `/data/plugin/distributions/distributions?run=foo&tag=bar`

Returns an array of event_accumulator.CompressedHistogramEvents ([wall_time,
step, CompressedHistogramValues]) for the given run and tag.

CompressedHistogramValues is a list of namedtuples with each tuple specifying
a basis point (bps) as well as an interpolated value of the histogram value
at that basis point. A basis point is 1/100 of a percent.

The current compression strategy is to choose basis points that correspond to
the median and bands of 1SD, 2SD, and 3SDs around the median. Note that the
current compression strategy does not work well for representing multimodal
data -- this is something that will be improved in a later iteration.

Annotated Example: (note - real data is higher precision)

    [
      [
        1441154832.580509,   # wall_time
        5,                   # step
        [ [0, -3.67],        # CompressedHistogramValue for 0th percentile
          [2500, -4.19],     # CompressedHistogramValue for 25th percentile
          [5000, 6.29],
          [7500, 1.64],
          [10000, 3.67]
        ]
      ],
      ...
    ]

## `/data/plugin/images/images?run=foo&tag=bar`

Gets a sample of ImageMetadatas for the given run and tag.

Returns an array of objects containing information about available images,
crucially including the query parameter that may be used to retrieve that image.
(See /data/plugin/images/individualImage for details.)

For example:

      {
        "width": 28,                 # width in pixels
        "height": 28,                # height in pixels
        "wall_time": 1440210599.246, # time in seconds since epoch
        "step": 63702821,            # number of steps that have passed
        "query": "index=0&tagname=input%2Fimage%2F2&run=train"
                                     # param for /individualImage
      }

## `/data/plugin/images/individualImage?{{query}}`

Retrieves an individual image. The image query should not be generated by the
frontend, but instead acquired from calling the /images route (the image
metadata objects contain the query to use). The response is the image itself
with mime-type 'image/png'.

Note that the query is not guaranteed to always refer to the same image even
within a single run, as images may be removed from the sampling reservoir and
replaced with other images. (See Notes for details on the reservoir sampling.)

An example call to this route would look like this:
/data/plugin/images/individualImage?index=0&tagname=input%2Fimage%2F2&run=train

## `/data/plugin/images/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all image
tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train": ["foo_image", "bar_image"],
      "eval": ["foo_image", "bar_image"]
    }

Note that runs without any image tags are included as keys with value the empty
array.

## `/data/plugin/audio/audio?run=foo&tag=bar`

Gets a sample of AudioMetadatas for the given run and tag.

Returns an array of objects containing information about available audio,
crucially including the query parameter that may be used to retrieve that audio.
(See /data/plugin/audio/individualAudio for details.)

For example:

      {
        "wall_time": 1440210599.246, # time in seconds since epoch
        "step": 63702821,            # number of steps that have passed
        "content_type": "audio/wav"  # the MIME-type of the audio
        "query": "index=0&tagname=input%2Faudio%2F2&run=train"
                                     # param for /individualAudio
      }

## `/data/plugin/audio/individualAudio?{{query}}`

Retrieves an individual audio clip. The audio query should not be generated by
the frontend, but instead acquired from calling the /audio route (the audio
metadata objects contain the query to use). The response is the audio itself
with an appropriate Content-Type header set.

Note that the query is not guaranteed to always refer to the same clip even
within a single run, as audio may be removed from the sampling reservoir and
replaced with other clips. (See Notes for details on the reservoir sampling.)

An example call to this route would look like this:
/individualAudio?index=0&tagname=input%2Faudio%2F2&run=train

## `/data/plugin/audio/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all audio
tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train": ["foo_audio", "bar_audio"],
      "eval": ["foo_audio", "bar_audio"],
    }

Note that runs without any audio tags are included as keys with value the empty
array.

## `/data/graph?run=foo&limit_attr_size=1024&large_attrs_key=key`

Returns the graph definition for the given run in gzipped pbtxt format. The
graph is composed of a list of nodes, where each node is a specific TensorFlow
operation which takes as inputs other nodes (operations).

The query parameters `limit_attr_size` and `large_attrs_key` are optional.

`limit_attr_size` specifies the maximum allowed size in bytes, before the
attribute is considered large and filtered out of the graph. If specified,
it must be an int and > 0. If not specified, no filtering is applied.

`large_attrs_key` is the attribute key that will be used for storing
attributes that are too large. The value of this key (list of strings)
should be used by the client in order to determine which attributes
have been filtered. Must be specified if `limit_attr_size` is specified.

For the query `/graph?run=foo&limit_attr_size=1024&large_attrs_key=_too_large`,
here is an example pbtxt response of a graph with 3 nodes, where the second
node had two large attributes "a" and "b" that were filtered out (size > 1024):

    node {
      op: "Input"
      name: "A"
    }
    node {
      op: "Input"
      name: "B"
      attr {
        key: "small_attr"
        value: {
          s: "some string"
        }
      }
      attr {
        key: "_too_large"
        value {
          list {
            s: "a"
            s: "b"
          }
        }
      }
    }
    node {
      op: "MatMul"
      name: "C"
      input: "A"
      input: "B"
    }

Prior to filtering, the original node "B" had the following content:

    node {
      op: "Input"
      name: "B"
      attr {
        key: "small_attr"
        value: {
          s: "some string"
        }
      }
      attr {
        key: "a"
        value { Very large object... }
      }
      attr {
        key: "b"
        value { Very large object... }
      }
    }

## `/data/run_metadata?run=foo&tag=bar`

Given a run and tag, returns the metadata of a particular
`session.run()` as a gzipped, pbtxt serialized [`RunMetadata`](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/core/protobuf/config.proto)
proto. For example:

    step_stats {
      dev_stats {
        device: "/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0"
        node_stats {
          node_name: "_SOURCE"
          all_start_micros: 1458337695775395
          op_start_rel_micros: 11
          op_end_rel_micros: 12
          all_end_rel_micros: 38
          memory {
            allocator_name: "cpu"
          }
          timeline_label: "_SOURCE = NoOp()"
          scheduled_micros: 1458337695775363
        }
      }
    }

## Notes

All returned values, histograms, audio, and images are returned in the order
they were written by TensorFlow (which should correspond to increasing
`wall_time` order, but may not necessarily correspond to increasing step count
if the process had to restart from a previous checkpoint).

The returned values may be downsampled using reservoir sampling, which is
configurable by the TensorBoard server. When downsampling occurs, the server
guarantees that different tags will all sample at the same sequence of indices,
so that if there are two tags `A` and `B` which are related so that `A[i] ~
B[i]` for all `i`, then `D(A)[i] ~ D(B)[i]` for all `i`, where `D` represents
the downsampling operation.

The reservoir sampling puts an upper bound on the number of items that will be
returned for a given run-tag combination, and guarantees that all items are
equally likely to be in the final sample (ie it is a uniform distribution over
the values), with the proviso that the most recent individual item is always
included in the sample.

The reservoir sizes are configurable on a per-tag type basis.

Commit message:

Extract the graphs dashboard to a plugin
This completes the great plugin migration!

The graphs plugin is somewhat different from the plugins considered so
far. First, it exposes two kinds of data: graph data and run metadata.
We elect to put both sources of data under the domain of the graphs
plugin for now, because it's not clear that the run metadata would be
useful for anything else. Second, the graph data really has no use for
"tags": a run either has an associated graph or it does not. Thus, we
expose an endpoint /data/plugin/graphs/runs that is different in format
from the /tags routes exposed by other plugins (it returns just a list
instead of a run-to-tag mapping).

This change removes a bunch of tests from application_test.py. The tests
cover the compresion behavior of the graph endpoint, but the graph
endpoint doesn't have any special logic in the way of compression. Thus,
the tests are, apparently, testing that werkzeug (or whatever is
relevant here) provides good compression defaults. This isn't
necessarily a bad idea, but it shouldn't be coupled to the graph tests.

To get test data that includes run metadata, you can run this script:

    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/7694469d6d506fbd66fd6994a91c12a6059b9f2c/tensorflow/examples/tutorials/mnist/mnist_with_summaries.py

PiperOrigin-RevId: 157884714

tensorflow/tensorboard/http_api.md, after:

# Tensorboard client-server HTTP API

## Runs, Tags, and Tag Types

TensorBoard data is organized around the concept of a `run`, which represents
all the related data thrown off by a single execution of TensorFlow, a `tag`,
which groups values of data that come from the same source within a TensorFlow
run, and `tag types`, which are our way of distinguishing different types of
data that have fundamentally different representations and should be processed
on different code paths. For example, a "train" run may have a `scalars`
tag that represents the learning rate, another `scalars` tag that
represents the value of the objective function, a `histograms` tag that reveals
information on weights in a particular layer over time, and an `images` tag that
shows input images flowing into the system. The "eval" run might have an
entirely different set of tag names, or some duplicated tag names.

The currently supported tag types are `scalars`, `images`, `audio`,
`histograms`, `graph` and `run_metadata`. Each tag type corresponds to a route
(documented below) for retrieving tag data of that type.

All of the data provided comes from TensorFlow events files ('\*.tfevents\*'),
which are written using the SummaryWriter class
(tensorflow/python/training/summary_writer.py), and the data is generated by
summary ops (tensorflow/python/ops/summary_ops.py). The `scalars` come from the
`ScalarSummary` op, the `histograms` from the `HistogramSummary`, the `audio`
from the `AudioSummary`, and the `images` from `ImageSummary`. The tag type
`graph` is special in that it is not a collection of tags of that type, but a
boolean denoting if there is a graph definition associated with the run. The tag
is provided to the summary op (usually as a constant).

## `data/logdir`

Returns a JSON object with a key "logdir" that maps to the `logdir` argument
(string) with which Tensorboard started up. Example:
`{logdir: '/foo/logdir/argument'}`

The `logdir` argument is the path of the directory that contains events files.

## `data/plugins_listing`

Returns a dict mapping from plugin name to a boolean indicating whether the
plugin is active. A plugin might be inactive, for instance, if it lacks relevant
data. Every plugin has a key. This route helps the frontend avoid issuing
requests to an inactive plugin - the routes of an inactive plugin do not work.

## `data/runs`

> **NOTE:** TensorBoard is migrating away from this API. Over time, each tag
> type will own a dedicated route, such as `data/plugin/scalars/tags`.

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run name` (quoted string) to dictionaries
mapping from most available tagTypes (see "Migrations" below) to a list of tags
of that type available for the run. Think of this as a comprehensive index of
all of the data available from the TensorBoard server. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": {
        "firstEventTimestamp": 123456.789
      },
      "eval": {
      }
    }

The `firstEventTimestamp` value is in seconds since the epoch.

Note that the same tag may be present for many runs. It is not guaranteed that
they will have the same meaning across runs. It is also not guaranteed that they
will have the same tag type across different runs.

### Migrations

Each of the following tag types `<t>` has been migrated to `/data/plugin/<t>/tags`,
and will not appear in the output from this route:

  - `audio`
  - `images`
  - `scalars`
  - `compressedHistograms`, moved to `distributions`
  - `histograms`
  - `graph`, as `/data/plugin/graphs/runs`
  - `run_metadata`, as `/data/plugin/graphs/run_metadata_tags`

## `/data/plugin/scalars/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all
scalar tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": ["xent", "loss", "learning_rate"],
      "eval": ["precision", "recall"]
    }

Note that runs without any scalar tags are included as keys with value the
empty array.

## `/data/plugin/scalars/scalars?run=foo&tag=bar`

Returns an array of event_accumulator.SimpleValueEvents ([wall_time, step,
value]) for the given run and tag. wall_time is seconds since epoch.

Example:

    [
      [1443856985.705543, 1448, 0.7461960315704346],  # wall_time, step, value
      [1443857105.704628, 3438, 0.5427092909812927],
      [1443857225.705133, 5417, 0.5457325577735901],
      ...
    ]

If the format parameter is set to 'csv', the response will instead be in CSV
format:

    Wall time,step,value
    1443856985.705543,1448,0.7461960315704346
    1443857105.704628,3438,0.5427092909812927
    1443857225.705133,5417,0.5457325577735901

## `/data/plugin/histograms/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all
histogram tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"],
      "eval": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"]
    }

Note that runs without any histogram tags are included as keys with
value the empty array.

## `/data/plugin/histograms/histograms?run=foo&tag=bar`

Returns an array of event_accumulator.HistogramEvents ([wall_time, step,
HistogramValue]) for the given run and tag. A HistogramValue is [min, max, num,
sum, sum_squares, bucket_limit, bucket]. wall_time is seconds since epoch.

Annotated Example: (note - real data is higher precision)

    [
      [
        1443871386.185149, # wall_time
        235166,            # step
        [
          -0.66,           # minimum value
          0.44,            # maximum value
          8.0,             # number of items in the histogram
          -0.80,           # sum of items in the histogram
          0.73,            # sum of squares of items in the histogram
          [-0.68, -0.62, -0.292, -0.26, -0.11, -0.10, -0.08, -0.07, -0.05,
          -0.0525, -0.0434, -0.039, -0.029, -0.026, 0.42, 0.47, 1.8e+308],
                          # the right edge of each bucket
        [0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0, 1.0, 0.0,
          1.0, 0.0]        # the number of elements within each bucket
        ]
      ]
    ]

## `/data/plugin/distributions/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all
distribution tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train_run": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"],
      "eval": ["foo_histogram", "bar_histogram"]
    }

Note that runs without any distribution tags are included as keys with
value the empty array.

## `/data/plugin/distributions/distributions?run=foo&tag=bar`

Returns an array of event_accumulator.CompressedHistogramEvents ([wall_time,
step, CompressedHistogramValues]) for the given run and tag.

CompressedHistogramValues is a list of namedtuples with each tuple specifying
a basis point (bps) as well as an interpolated value of the histogram value
at that basis point. A basis point is 1/100 of a percent.

The current compression strategy is to choose basis points that correspond to
the median and bands of 1SD, 2SD, and 3SDs around the median. Note that the
current compression strategy does not work well for representing multimodal
data -- this is something that will be improved in a later iteration.

Annotated Example: (note - real data is higher precision)

    [
      [
        1441154832.580509,   # wall_time
        5,                   # step
        [ [0, -3.67],        # CompressedHistogramValue for 0th percentile
          [2500, -4.19],     # CompressedHistogramValue for 25th percentile
          [5000, 6.29],
          [7500, 1.64],
          [10000, 3.67]
        ]
      ],
      ...
    ]

## `/data/plugin/images/images?run=foo&tag=bar`

Gets a sample of ImageMetadatas for the given run and tag.

Returns an array of objects containing information about available images,
crucially including the query parameter that may be used to retrieve that image.
(See /data/plugin/images/individualImage for details.)

For example:

      {
        "width": 28,                 # width in pixels
        "height": 28,                # height in pixels
        "wall_time": 1440210599.246, # time in seconds since epoch
        "step": 63702821,            # number of steps that have passed
        "query": "index=0&tagname=input%2Fimage%2F2&run=train"
                                     # param for /individualImage
      }

## `/data/plugin/images/individualImage?{{query}}`

Retrieves an individual image. The image query should not be generated by the
frontend, but instead acquired from calling the /images route (the image
metadata objects contain the query to use). The response is the image itself
with mime-type 'image/png'.

Note that the query is not guaranteed to always refer to the same image even
within a single run, as images may be removed from the sampling reservoir and
replaced with other images. (See Notes for details on the reservoir sampling.)

An example call to this route would look like this:
/data/plugin/images/individualImage?index=0&tagname=input%2Fimage%2F2&run=train

## `/data/plugin/images/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all image
tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train": ["foo_image", "bar_image"],
      "eval": ["foo_image", "bar_image"]
    }

Note that runs without any image tags are included as keys with value the empty
array.

## `/data/plugin/audio/audio?run=foo&tag=bar`

Gets a sample of AudioMetadatas for the given run and tag.

Returns an array of objects containing information about available audio,
crucially including the query parameter that may be used to retrieve that audio.
(See /data/plugin/audio/individualAudio for details.)

For example:

      {
        "wall_time": 1440210599.246, # time in seconds since epoch
        "step": 63702821,            # number of steps that have passed
        "content_type": "audio/wav"  # the MIME-type of the audio
        "query": "index=0&tagname=input%2Faudio%2F2&run=train"
                                     # param for /individualAudio
      }

## `/data/plugin/audio/individualAudio?{{query}}`

Retrieves an individual audio clip. The audio query should not be generated by
the frontend, but instead acquired from calling the /audio route (the audio
metadata objects contain the query to use). The response is the audio itself
with an appropriate Content-Type header set.

Note that the query is not guaranteed to always refer to the same clip even
within a single run, as audio may be removed from the sampling reservoir and
replaced with other clips. (See Notes for details on the reservoir sampling.)

An example call to this route would look like this:
/individualAudio?index=0&tagname=input%2Faudio%2F2&run=train

## `/data/plugin/audio/tags`

Returns a dictionary mapping from `run_name` (quoted string) to arrays of
`tag_name` (quoted string), where each array contains the names of all audio
tags present in the corresponding run. Here is an example:

    {
      "train": ["foo_audio", "bar_audio"],
      "eval": ["foo_audio", "bar_audio"],
    }

Note that runs without any audio tags are included as keys with value the empty
array.

## `/data/plugin/graphs/runs`

Returns a list of runs that have associated graphs.

For example:

    ["train"]

## `/data/plugin/graphs/graph?run=foo&limit_attr_size=1024&large_attrs_key=key`

Returns the graph definition for the given run in pbtxt format. The
graph is composed of a list of nodes, where each node is a specific
TensorFlow operation which takes as inputs other nodes (operations).

The query parameters `limit_attr_size` and `large_attrs_key` are optional.

`limit_attr_size` specifies the maximum allowed size in bytes, before the
attribute is considered large and filtered out of the graph. If specified,
it must be an int and > 0. If not specified, no filtering is applied.

`large_attrs_key` is the attribute key that will be used for storing
attributes that are too large. The value of this key (list of strings)
should be used by the client in order to determine which attributes
have been filtered. Must be specified if `limit_attr_size` is specified.

For the query

    /data/plugin/graphs/graph?run=foo&limit_attr_size=1024&large_attrs_key=_too_large,

here is an example pbtxt response of a graph with 3 nodes, where the second
node had two large attributes "a" and "b" that were filtered out (size > 1024):

    node {
      op: "Input"
      name: "A"
    }
    node {
      op: "Input"
      name: "B"
      attr {
        key: "small_attr"
        value: {
          s: "some string"
        }
      }
      attr {
        key: "_too_large"
        value {
          list {
            s: "a"
            s: "b"
          }
        }
      }
    }
    node {
      op: "MatMul"
      name: "C"
      input: "A"
      input: "B"
    }

Prior to filtering, the original node "B" had the following content:

    node {
      op: "Input"
      name: "B"
      attr {
        key: "small_attr"
        value: {
          s: "some string"
        }
      }
      attr {
        key: "a"
        value { Very large object... }
      }
      attr {
        key: "b"
        value { Very large object... }
      }
    }

## `/data/run_metadata?run=foo&tag=bar`

Given a run and tag, returns the metadata of a particular
`session.run()` as a gzipped, pbtxt serialized [`RunMetadata`](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/core/protobuf/config.proto)
proto. For example:

    step_stats {
      dev_stats {
        device: "/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0"
        node_stats {
          node_name: "_SOURCE"
          all_start_micros: 1458337695775395
          op_start_rel_micros: 11
          op_end_rel_micros: 12
          all_end_rel_micros: 38
          memory {
            allocator_name: "cpu"
          }
          timeline_label: "_SOURCE = NoOp()"
          scheduled_micros: 1458337695775363
        }
      }
    }

## Notes

All returned values, histograms, audio, and images are returned in the order
they were written by TensorFlow (which should correspond to increasing
`wall_time` order, but may not necessarily correspond to increasing step count
if the process had to restart from a previous checkpoint).

The returned values may be downsampled using reservoir sampling, which is
configurable by the TensorBoard server. When downsampling occurs, the server
guarantees that different tags will all sample at the same sequence of indices,
so that if there are two tags `A` and `B` which are related so that `A[i] ~
B[i]` for all `i`, then `D(A)[i] ~ D(B)[i]` for all `i`, where `D` represents
the downsampling operation.

The reservoir sampling puts an upper bound on the number of items that will be
returned for a given run-tag combination, and guarantees that all items are
equally likely to be in the final sample (ie it is a uniform distribution over
the values), with the proviso that the most recent individual item is always
included in the sample.

The reservoir sizes are configurable on a per-tag type basis.
