tensorflow/docs_src/tutorials/using_gpu.md, before:

# Using GPUs

## Supported devices

On a typical system, there are multiple computing devices. In TensorFlow, the
supported device types are `CPU` and `GPU`. They are represented as `strings`.
For example:

*   `"/cpu:0"`: The CPU of your machine.
*   `"/gpu:0"`: The GPU of your machine, if you have one.
*   `"/gpu:1"`: The second GPU of your machine, etc.

If a TensorFlow operation has both CPU and GPU implementations, the GPU devices
will be given priority when the operation is assigned to a device. For example,
`matmul` has both CPU and GPU kernels. On a system with devices `cpu:0` and
`gpu:0`, `gpu:0` will be selected to run `matmul`.

## Logging Device placement

To find out which devices your operations and tensors are assigned to, create
the session with `log_device_placement` configuration option set to `True`.

```python
# Creates a graph.
a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

You should see the following output:

```
Device mapping:
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0 -> device: 0, name: Tesla K40c, pci bus
id: 0000:05:00.0
b: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
a: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
MatMul: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
[[ 22.  28.]
 [ 49.  64.]]

```

## Manual device placement

If you would like a particular operation to run on a device of your choice
instead of what's automatically selected for you, you can use `with tf.device`
to create a device context such that all the operations within that context will
have the same device assignment.

```python
# Creates a graph.
with tf.device('/cpu:0'):
  a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
  b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
  c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

You will see that now `a` and `b` are assigned to `cpu:0`.

```
Device mapping:
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0 -> device: 0, name: Tesla K40c, pci bus
id: 0000:05:00.0
b: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0
a: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0
MatMul: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
[[ 22.  28.]
 [ 49.  64.]]
```

## Allowing GPU memory growth

By default, TensorFlow maps nearly all of the GPU memory of all GPUs (subject to
[`CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`](http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#env-vars))
visible to the process. This is done to more efficiently use the relatively
precious GPU memory resources on the devices by reducing [memory
fragmentation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fragmentation_\(computing\)).

In some cases it is desirable for the process to only allocate a subset of the
available memory, or to only grow the memory usage as is needed by the process.
TensorFlow provides two Config options on the Session to control this.

The first is the `allow_growth` option, which attempts to allocate only as much
GPU memory based on runtime allocations: it starts out allocating very little
memory, and as Sessions get run and more GPU memory is needed, we extend the GPU
memory region needed by the TensorFlow process. Note that we do not release
memory, since that can lead to even worse memory fragmentation. To turn this
option on, set the option in the ConfigProto by:

```python
config = tf.ConfigProto()
config.gpu_options.allow_growth = True
session = tf.Session(config=config, ...)
```

The second method is the `per_process_gpu_memory_fraction` option, which
determines the fraction of the overall amount of memory that each visible GPU
should be allocated. For example, you can tell TensorFlow to only allocate 40%
of the total memory of each GPU by:

```python
config = tf.ConfigProto()
config.gpu_options.per_process_gpu_memory_fraction = 0.4
session = tf.Session(config=config, ...)
```

This is useful if you want to truly bound the amount of GPU memory available to
the TensorFlow process.

## Using a single GPU on a multi-GPU system

If you have more than one GPU in your system, the GPU with the lowest ID will be
selected by default. If you would like to run on a different GPU, you will need
to specify the preference explicitly:

```python
# Creates a graph.
with tf.device('/gpu:2'):
  a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
  b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
  c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

If the device you have specified does not exist, you will get
`InvalidArgumentError`:

```
InvalidArgumentError: Invalid argument: Cannot assign a device to node 'b':
Could not satisfy explicit device specification '/gpu:2'
   [[Node: b = Const[dtype=DT_FLOAT, value=Tensor<type: float shape: [3,2]
   values: 1 2 3...>, _device="/gpu:2"]()]]
```

If you would like TensorFlow to automatically choose an existing and supported
device to run the operations in case the specified one doesn't exist, you can
set `allow_soft_placement` to `True` in the configuration option when creating
the session.

```python
# Creates a graph.
with tf.device('/gpu:2'):
  a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
  b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
  c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with allow_soft_placement and log_device_placement set
# to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(
      allow_soft_placement=True, log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

## Using multiple GPUs

If you would like to run TensorFlow on multiple GPUs, you can construct your
model in a multi-tower fashion where each tower is assigned to a different GPU.
For example:

```
# Creates a graph.
c = []
for d in ['/gpu:2', '/gpu:3']:
  with tf.device(d):
    a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3])
    b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2])
    c.append(tf.matmul(a, b))
with tf.device('/cpu:0'):
  sum = tf.add_n(c)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(sum))
```

You will see the following output.

```
Device mapping:
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0 -> device: 0, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:02:00.0
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:1 -> device: 1, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:03:00.0
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2 -> device: 2, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:83:00.0
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3 -> device: 3, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:84:00.0
Const_3: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3
Const_2: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3
MatMul_1: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3
Const_1: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2
Const: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2
MatMul: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2
AddN: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0
[[  44.   56.]
 [  98.  128.]]
```

The @{$deep_cnn$cifar10 tutorial} is a good example
demonstrating how to do training with multiple GPUs.

Commit message:

Documentation: Fix bug in manual device placement example Change: 152563392

tensorflow/docs_src/tutorials/using_gpu.md, after:

# Using GPUs

## Supported devices

On a typical system, there are multiple computing devices. In TensorFlow, the
supported device types are `CPU` and `GPU`. They are represented as `strings`.
For example:

*   `"/cpu:0"`: The CPU of your machine.
*   `"/gpu:0"`: The GPU of your machine, if you have one.
*   `"/gpu:1"`: The second GPU of your machine, etc.

If a TensorFlow operation has both CPU and GPU implementations, the GPU devices
will be given priority when the operation is assigned to a device. For example,
`matmul` has both CPU and GPU kernels. On a system with devices `cpu:0` and
`gpu:0`, `gpu:0` will be selected to run `matmul`.

## Logging Device placement

To find out which devices your operations and tensors are assigned to, create
the session with `log_device_placement` configuration option set to `True`.

```python
# Creates a graph.
a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

You should see the following output:

```
Device mapping:
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0 -> device: 0, name: Tesla K40c, pci bus
id: 0000:05:00.0
b: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
a: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
MatMul: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
[[ 22.  28.]
 [ 49.  64.]]

```

## Manual device placement

If you would like a particular operation to run on a device of your choice
instead of what's automatically selected for you, you can use `with tf.device`
to create a device context such that all the operations within that context will
have the same device assignment.

```python
# Creates a graph.
with tf.device('/cpu:0'):
  a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
  b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

You will see that now `a` and `b` are assigned to `cpu:0`. Since a device was
not explicitly specified for the `MatMul` operation, the TensorFlow runtime will
choose one based on the operation and available devices (`gpu:0` in this
example) and automatically copy tensors between devices if required.

```
Device mapping:
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0 -> device: 0, name: Tesla K40c, pci bus
id: 0000:05:00.0
b: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0
a: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0
MatMul: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0
[[ 22.  28.]
 [ 49.  64.]]
```

## Allowing GPU memory growth

By default, TensorFlow maps nearly all of the GPU memory of all GPUs (subject to
[`CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`](http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#env-vars))
visible to the process. This is done to more efficiently use the relatively
precious GPU memory resources on the devices by reducing [memory
fragmentation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fragmentation_\(computing\)).

In some cases it is desirable for the process to only allocate a subset of the
available memory, or to only grow the memory usage as is needed by the process.
TensorFlow provides two Config options on the Session to control this.

The first is the `allow_growth` option, which attempts to allocate only as much
GPU memory based on runtime allocations: it starts out allocating very little
memory, and as Sessions get run and more GPU memory is needed, we extend the GPU
memory region needed by the TensorFlow process. Note that we do not release
memory, since that can lead to even worse memory fragmentation. To turn this
option on, set the option in the ConfigProto by:

```python
config = tf.ConfigProto()
config.gpu_options.allow_growth = True
session = tf.Session(config=config, ...)
```

The second method is the `per_process_gpu_memory_fraction` option, which
determines the fraction of the overall amount of memory that each visible GPU
should be allocated. For example, you can tell TensorFlow to only allocate 40%
of the total memory of each GPU by:

```python
config = tf.ConfigProto()
config.gpu_options.per_process_gpu_memory_fraction = 0.4
session = tf.Session(config=config, ...)
```

This is useful if you want to truly bound the amount of GPU memory available to
the TensorFlow process.

## Using a single GPU on a multi-GPU system

If you have more than one GPU in your system, the GPU with the lowest ID will be
selected by default. If you would like to run on a different GPU, you will need
to specify the preference explicitly:

```python
# Creates a graph.
with tf.device('/gpu:2'):
  a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
  b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
  c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

If the device you have specified does not exist, you will get
`InvalidArgumentError`:

```
InvalidArgumentError: Invalid argument: Cannot assign a device to node 'b':
Could not satisfy explicit device specification '/gpu:2'
   [[Node: b = Const[dtype=DT_FLOAT, value=Tensor<type: float shape: [3,2]
   values: 1 2 3...>, _device="/gpu:2"]()]]
```

If you would like TensorFlow to automatically choose an existing and supported
device to run the operations in case the specified one doesn't exist, you can
set `allow_soft_placement` to `True` in the configuration option when creating
the session.

```python
# Creates a graph.
with tf.device('/gpu:2'):
  a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3], name='a')
  b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2], name='b')
  c = tf.matmul(a, b)
# Creates a session with allow_soft_placement and log_device_placement set
# to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(
      allow_soft_placement=True, log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(c))
```

## Using multiple GPUs

If you would like to run TensorFlow on multiple GPUs, you can construct your
model in a multi-tower fashion where each tower is assigned to a different GPU.
For example:

```
# Creates a graph.
c = []
for d in ['/gpu:2', '/gpu:3']:
  with tf.device(d):
    a = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[2, 3])
    b = tf.constant([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0], shape=[3, 2])
    c.append(tf.matmul(a, b))
with tf.device('/cpu:0'):
  sum = tf.add_n(c)
# Creates a session with log_device_placement set to True.
sess = tf.Session(config=tf.ConfigProto(log_device_placement=True))
# Runs the op.
print(sess.run(sum))
```

You will see the following output.

```
Device mapping:
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:0 -> device: 0, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:02:00.0
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:1 -> device: 1, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:03:00.0
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2 -> device: 2, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:83:00.0
/job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3 -> device: 3, name: Tesla K20m, pci bus
id: 0000:84:00.0
Const_3: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3
Const_2: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3
MatMul_1: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:3
Const_1: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2
Const: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2
MatMul: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/gpu:2
AddN: /job:localhost/replica:0/task:0/cpu:0
[[  44.   56.]
 [  98.  128.]]
```

The @{$deep_cnn$cifar10 tutorial} is a good example
demonstrating how to do training with multiple GPUs.
